hello everybody
Michael here would do it justice and
welcome to the next video in our DIY
solar power series as you see me discuss
in the last two videos I've talked about
questions you need to consider if you're
asking yourself is solar right for me
I've also talked about how to properly
sized your solar power system and in the
next four videos I'm going to discuss
the four major components of the solar
power system and today I'm starting with
the solar panels as far as what I'm
gonna discuss when it comes to solar
panels I'm going to talk about the
difference between monocrystalline and
polycrystalline which are the
tried-and-true
hard framed solar panels I'm also going
to talk about the difference between
those traditional panels and the newer
flexible thin film panels and the last
thing I'm going to talk about is how to
wire your solar panels whether you
should wire them in series and parallel
and some advantages and disadvantages of
each of those options so let's jump
right into monocrystalline versus
polycrystalline the major differences
between these panels are going to be the
durability and looks the efficiency and
the size as well as the cost per watt
when it comes to durability both of
these panels are extremely durable they
have an aluminum frame with a tempered
glass top to cover all of the solar
cells that produce the energy
manufacturers generally cover these
panels for about 25 years which is
actually quite a long time when it comes
to product warranties now when it comes
to whether these panels are extremely
resistant to all types of weather
including high winds and even medium
sized hail the general rule of thumb is
if the weather can damage your roof it
can damage your panel okay now let's
talk about the efficiency and size of
each of these panels monocrystalline
panels are made with a higher grade of
silicone so generally they are slightly
more efficient than the polycrystalline
panels now what I'm talking about
efficiency I'm talking about the
percentage of energy that is converted
into electricity so when it comes to
monocrystalline panels on the high end
it's about 20% and when it comes to
polycrystalline panels on the high end
it's about 17% or
because monocrystalline panels are
slightly more efficient that means that
their footprint is just slightly smaller
than a polycrystalline panel so if you
have a 150 watt monocrystalline panel
compared to a 150 watt polycrystalline
panel the monocrystalline panel is just
going to be slightly smaller in
dimensions won't take up quite as much
room as that polycrystalline panel now
I'm going to discuss the cost per watt
for each of these panels and in general
they are around the same but because
monocrystalline panels are produced with
a higher grade of silicon that in turn
means the manufacturing process is
slightly more expensive which then makes
the consumer have to pay a little bit
more for those products in general three
years ago when we bought our
monocrystalline panels it was really
good if you could get a panel for about
$8 per watt but as time has gone on and
as demand for solar has increased those
costs have gone down so you should
easily be able to find both a mono
crystalline and a polycrystalline a
really high efficiency panel for about
Oh 82 90 cents per watt now I'm going to
discuss the differences between those
traditional panels that I just discussed
and the newer flexible thin film solar
panels and again I'm going to talk about
the durability and looks the efficiency
and the size and the cost per watt so
when it comes to durability the tempered
glass old-school panels are as I said
really really durable but when it comes
to the flexible panels they are not as
durable there are issues like cupping
scratches micro scratches as well as
tears that can happen to the solar cells
because they don't have the tempered
glass protection on the top of them
another thing that they don't have is a
25 year manufacturer's warranty
generally they come with about a 10 year
warranty because the manufacturers don't
anticipate them lasting you that long
now I could go into a bunch of different
issues with these flexible panels when
it comes to durability but gone with the
winds have created a really well put
together video that discuss all of these
issues and I'm gonna link that video in
the video description below so go check
that out and that's going to give you a
really good idea
how durable these flexible panels are
okay now let's talk about the efficiency
and the size when it comes to efficiency
these flexible panels are not as
efficient as the old-school panels so on
a high end or the average for these
flexible panels is about 13% efficiency
and that is not very good when you
compare it to the sixteen to seventeen
percent of the polycrystalline and the
almost 20% of the mono crystalline so
again the difference in efficiency is
going to make you have to buy more
panels or each panel is going to be
larger in size it's gonna have a bigger
footprint bigger surface area to produce
the same amount of energy so now let's
talk about the size between the two
panels the traditional panels are
significantly bulkier and heavier than
the flexible panels obviously that's one
of the major advantages that the
flexible panels have over the
traditional ones and when it comes to it
just to give you an example our 150 watt
panels that we have on our RV are 25
pounds and they are about three to four
inches thick to give you a comparison
you can get a thin film flexible panel a
150 watt panel that might be eight
pounds and about an half an inch thick
so that's a significant difference so if
portability is a huge factor in your
decision definitely go with flexible
over the hard panels now I'm going to
talk about the cost differences between
the traditional panels and the flexible
panels and as you know the traditional
panels will run you anywhere from 80 to
90 cents per watt for a decent quality
panel and I did a quick search online to
check the prices of the flexible panels
and on eBay I found a 150 watt panel for
about $190 that will run you about a
dollar 30 per watt which is a little bit
more expensive not too bad but a pretty
significant amount more than the
traditional panels now since we're
talking about efficiency and cost of the
flexible panels I should talk about an
anomaly in all of this and that's so
bein brand flexible panels they just
came out with the most efficient solar
panels ever made and they are 22 and 1/2
percent efficient they
our flexible panels so that's really an
amazing accomplishment but the only
thing is is they're gonna run you an arm
and a leg they cost about $10 per watt
that's over ten times the amount for any
other solar panel that you can look for
and yeah if you have healthy pocketbooks
definitely go for that option but when
it comes to just a standard flexible and
traditional panels traditional panels
went out when it comes to costs all
right guys now we're gonna jump into the
final topic and that has to do with
wiring solar panels in series and/or
parallel now this topic can be extremely
confusing and my goal with this little
section is to try to make it as clear
and easy to understand as possible
Before we jump into it I want to refresh
our minds on the relationship between
watts volts and amps as you may remember
from the previous video we discussed how
watts is equal to volts times amps this
equation is going to be very important
as we go through our scenarios today so
when I Ellis traits how to wire in both
series in parallel I'm gonna use our
personal system as a reference to
illustrate those concepts so we have 4
150 watt panels for a total of a 600
watt solar array so we know we have 150
watt panels at 17.5 volts and that gives
us about 8.6 amps of current on each of
those panels now the first thing I'm
going to talk about is wiring them in
series so when you're thinking about
wiring your panels in series you need to
think of the panels as being tied into a
string you're taking each one of these
150 watt panels and you are marrying
them or combining them into a singular
600 watt panel and this is in an
electrical sense not in a physical sense
obviously they're going to remain four
separate panels but in an electrical
sense you're going to be wiring them
into a single 600 watt panel now let me
talk about what changes with the solar
array when you do that so when you're
wiring all of these panels to
gather you're going to take the positive
line on one panel wire it to the
negative line on another take that
positive line wire it to the next native
line and so on and so forth and so what
you're left with is like I said a
singular 600 watt panel that has a
single negative wire coming out of it
and a single positive wire coming out of
it what changes when you do this process
is the voltage of your system what you
need to remember is when you wire things
in series the only thing that changes
with the system is the voltage so when
you're wiring for 150 watt 17.5 Volt
panels together you're gonna take that
17.5 volts and multiply that by 4 which
will give you 70 volts so now you have a
600 watt panel that is 70 volts and if
you reference that equation that we just
talked about Watts equals volts times
amps you have your watts which is 600
you have your bolts which is 70 but you
don't have your amps so to solve that
equation very easily you just take the
Watts 600 divided by 70 which is your
volts and that gives you eight point six
amps so you'll notice when wiring it in
series the only thing that changes is
your voltage you have a 600 watt system
at 70 volts and 8.6 amps okay now that
series is done let's talk about wiring
them in parallel so when you're wiring
the solar panels in parallel it is
almost the exact opposite it actually is
the exact opposite each of those panels
each of those 150 watt panels are going
to remain separate panels they're going
to be individual panels producing
individual amounts of energy at 17.5
volts the only thing that's going to
change when you wire all of these in
parallel meaning a positive and negative
line comes out of one a positive
negative line comes out of the next one
and so on and so forth
none of them are connected together the
only thing that changes is the amps of
your solar array so you still have a 600
watt solar array at 17.5
and again let's go back to our Watts
equals volts times amps equation and if
we need to find the amps for that system
wired in parallel you take the 600 Watts
and you divide that by 17.5 volts and
that gives you thirty-four point four
amps now that thirty-four point four is
as you might have guessed eight point
six amps from each panel multiplied by
four because we have four panels so
eight point six times four gives you
thirty four point four amps so the only
thing that changes when you're wiring a
solar system in parallel is the amps
you're quadrupling the amps okay now
that we understand how to wire in both
series and parallel what you need to do
is figure out what the advantages and
disadvantages are between those now I'm
gonna tell you the three major
advantages and disadvantages between
those two types of wiring configurations
and it has to do with wire sizing
shading issues and the charge controller
size as far as wire sizing is concerned
if you don't know already wire size is
strictly correlated with the amount of
amps running through that wire so each
wire is rated for a specific amount of
amps or current flowing through it so
the smaller the amount of amps the
smaller the size of wires so you'll
remember that our 600 watt panels wired
in series was 70 volts at 8.6 amps and
that our 600 watt panels wired in
parallel was 17.5 volts in 34.4 amps now
the ones wired in series are going to be
much smaller wires coming off those
solar panels than the ones wired in
parallel now when it comes to shading
that's where the advantages and
disadvantages switch the wiring it in
parallel is a major advantage when it
comes to shading and I'll explain to you
why because remember how earlier when I
was talking about wiring them in series
you're marrying them all together so
it's a singular unit all those panels
are working together to produce that
energy now when
one of those solar panels is shaded the
entire unit goes down and this has to do
with the fact that this is how solar
panels work if you have a single 150
watt solar panel and that solar panel is
shaded that panel stops producing energy
the only reason the entire system goes
down when you're wired in series is
because you've wired them all together
so each one depends on the other now the
reason it's the advantage when it comes
to wiring them in parallel is because
all of those panels are individual
panels so if one panel gets shaded
you're only down 25% of your solar array
so three of your four panels can still
produce energy the last thing I'm going
to talk about is the size of the charge
controller if you remember when I was
talking about how to properly size your
system there was that solar calculator
well when you think about the amperage
coming from the solar panels when you
wire it in series and the amperage
wire them in parallel it's a major
difference there are much more amps
coming from the solar panels wired in
parallel versus the solar panels wired
in series so the requirements for your
charge controller are going to be much
higher the higher the amps are so a
solar array wired in parallel will need
a much bigger charge controller than a
solar array wired in series okay guys I
hope that wasn't that confusing and not
to muddy the waters anymore but there is
a third option that you can do when
wiring in series like I said and/or
parallel you could wire them in series
and parallel meaning if we took two 150
watt panels and another two 150 watt
panels and we wired those together in
series you would have two 300 watt 24
Volt panels because we know that wiring
the mid series doubles the voltage and
then you would take both of those 300
watt 24 Volt panels and you would wire
them down in parallel and as you know
with wiring them in parallel we're going
to double our amperage so the specs for
that system would be 600 watts at 35
volts and 17.2 amps
my brain is fried okay guys that is a
third option but it kind of blends the
best of both worlds for both series and
parallel and obviously I just used this
one particular illustration as an
example to explain these concepts to you
of course you can change the size of
your solar array you can change the
number of panels you can change all of
that
so remember when I said solar was
virtually limitless this is exactly what
I mean it is very confusing but once you
understand all the concepts you'll
realize how things kind of intertwine
together and it'll start to make a lot
more sense to you so if this video
doesn't make sense to you right now I
encourage you to go out and do more
research so that you can come back and
watch this video and really digest what
I'm saying in it by the way guys if
you're curious how I personally wired
our solar panels I will be discussing
this in a future video when I take you
guys on a complete walkthrough of our
personal 600 watt system on our RV and I
will discuss all of the thoughts and
considerations that went into place when
I was going to wire my solar panels
anyway guys I hope you enjoyed this
video if you did and potentially learn
something along the way hit that like
button down below it lets both Jenni and
I as well as YouTube know that we're
producing quality content and if you
have any questions on this topic hit me
up in the comments below I'm gonna do my
best to answer as many questions as I
can and if you guys know the answers
please do me a favor and help answer
those questions in the in the comments
section below and as always guys I will
see you on the next video
[Music]